

metrics lab:

cloned from franck:
git clone https://github.com/FranckPachot/yb-metrics-lab

up via 1 command, docker componse from readme.
docker compose up -d

ysql running on 1 node, locahost:5433
ysqlsh -h localhost 

metrics at this endpoint: 
localhost:9090

simplest measure: rows_inserted

grafana is here, admin/admin:
http://localhost:3000/


Q:

q: so many metrics, which ones are simple, useful
q: how to connect hit to my own cluster ?



-- -- --
Automated failover for yb-master.

Aim: Keep sufficient master-processes running when yb-masters fail or drop off the network.
Also reduce the manual work of "change_master_config" needed to provision for a failed yb-master.

Suggestion: keep a list of available master-nodes, 
on which a replacement yb-master process can start and join the cluster.
This could be nodes already running tservers in the same rack, 
or could be dedicated nodes designated to run yb-master processes in same or nearby locations.
These "masters-in-waiting" could even have a running yb-master (as does the docker-demo containe?).

More background: 
It seems I can lose, disconnect or kill many (all) of the nodes that only run tserver without losing my database, 
as tablets get moved around to the remaining nodes.
But if I lose "quorum" on the (hardcoded?) master-list, my cluster stops.
Having some failover mechanism for yb-master processes could make my cluster even more resilient?


more details: 
(link to blog with testing master-fails)
(screenshot of blog)


Request : Listing of hostnames (nodenames, IPs) in alfabetical order.

This concerns : yb-admin output and yugatool output.

Currently, I use 3 means to monitor host/nodes/servers: 
yb-admin (list masters, list tservers), 
yugatool (cluster_info)
select * from yb_servers() 

Each of those provides lists (or tuples, or lines) of hosts, but often in seemingly random order.

To quickly inspect the state of my hosts, I often "assume" that the listings are in the same order.
But they often are not or the order seems to change (with stop/start of components?). 
The order in which those hosts appear is seemingly random.

When I list my hosts using Select host from yb_servers() I tend to add 
order-by-host, and that ordering is logical, consistent, and easy to read.
But when I look at stdout from yb-admin or yugatool, there seems to be no consistent ordering.
This makes "spotting" of dead-nodes, or any monitoring or troubleshooting slightly confusing, 
as I have to always carefully look for host:port, and and alway have to check the IPs or nodenames.

Attached: Screenshot of: yb-admin (masters + tservers) follwed by yb_servers();
The ordering of the tsverver from yb-admin is (accidentally) reverse-alphabetic, 
with funny enought the dead-nodes on top.

Hence the Request, for yb-admin and yugatool: Always present in order of host(name) ? 



-- -- -

views my-adv
:f

